# Media Repository

The media repository allows RC users to navigate, organize and manage
their media files, and to share sets of files with other users. Beyond
being a data storage space, the media repository makes possible
research workflows that start not by visually arranging media, but by
collaboratively linking and organizing texts and media.  The media
repository includes all media used in your expositions. You can upload
media, organize and share them with other users of the RC. It extends
and replaces the older "Works" feature.

# Creating new media

There are a number of ways to create new media in the media repository:

## Upload

Click "Upload media" to add a new file. Once you have select one or
more files, you will be asked to provide at least copyright
information. If you are the creator, you can fill in your own name
here.

### Multi-upload

You can select multiple files to upload at once or a folder containing
several files. You will be presented with a form block for each
file. In order to ease such a workflow you can apply the copyright
information and the set you want to add the media to from one form to
all other forms.

## Text

Text is a media type in the media repository.

# Sets

Media can be organised in Sets. Media can belong to multiple sets at
once. You can create a new set and by clicking " select" you can
choose what media belongs to that set.

# Sharing 

# Open Keywords, Closed Keywords, Tags

Tags are meant for personal organistion, for example todo, old,
archive, new, music, in progress, history etc.. They are private to
your exposition

## Open keywords,

open keywords are share with the whole RC and are not controlled, you
can add any new term to the global namespace.

## Closed Keywords

Closed keywords are controlled vocabulary. They are chosen so that we
can more easily interact with other repositories.

# Filtering and Searching
