# My Profile Page

The RC profile page is both the central hub for your activities on the
RC and a public presentation of your research activities. The RC
allows you to create a detailed public profile containing biographical
data, information on projects and events as well as a list of your RC
objects such as media sets and expositions. The profile is divided
into two sections, the upper sections contains an artist biography as
well as information of research interests and the lower part, which is
titled "Research" contains a list of RC media sets and expositions.

Reviewers will also see the headers "Exposition Reviewing" or
"Application Reviewing", containing links to the expositions they have
been assigned to.

## Profile Section

### View Public Profile

You can switch between your profile's editing mode (private) and your
public profile, which is the profile as other users see it. Click on
"my profile" for the editing mode and - below your image - click "view
public profile" to hide all controls, grouping options and private
research. You can thus control the public visibility of your RC
objects.

![view public profile](images/view_public_profile.png "view public
profile")

### Description 

You can add a short text (for example a biography), that other RC
users will see when they visit your profile. To edit this text, click
"edit profile", on your profile page and scroll down. Here you can
also add a tagline, set your country of residence, and list your
research interests.

### Uploading a CV

In addition to the profile description, it is possible to upload a
more extended CV as a PDF.  To do so, click "upload cv" below your
profile picture.

![upload your cv](images/upload_cv.png "upload a cv")


<!-- ### Degrees -->

<!-- You can also add your __degrees__ to your profile. Enter the
name, the level, the dates and the institution of your degree and link
it via the __relations-tab__ to projects, expositions or works that
you created in support for your degree. -->

### Member of

As a user you can request membership of (some of the) RC
portals. Certain actions can only be done if one is a member of the
portal. For example: for some application programs, it may be required
that you are member of the portal before you are able to submit an
application for a program.

In most cases however, it is the task of the portal admin to make you
a member of their portal, most portals do therefore not allow users to
request membership themselves.

Click edit to ask for a request to become a portal member, or remove
yourself from a portal.

## Research Section

### Create Exposition

By clicking "Create exposition" you can create a new exposition object
which will be opened in the RC exposition workspace editor. The
__title__, __copyright__ and __abstract__ fields are obligatory. In
most cases, the copyright field should be the same as the main author
name (so you can write your own name).  You can change these details
later by choosing ☰ > __edit details__, or in the __workspace editor__
by clicking the title of your research (at the top of you screen).

There are three types of exposition on the RC:

* [Graphical/Block](#graphical-editor---workspace "graphical editor
  documentation")
* [Text-based](#text-based-editor "text-based editor documentation")
* [HTML-based](#html-import "html import documentation")

*(There is also a fourth type, __Research Video__, which at the moment
is only available to members of the ZHDK portal.)*

For a description of the differences, please consult [editor
comparison section](#comparison).

![create exposition](images/add-research-dialog.png "image showing the
add research dialog")

### Add Work

Works are an older feature, which has now been replaced by media sets
through the [media repository](#media-repository).  If you had created
works previously, you can still edit or remove them.

### Add Project 

Projects were part of an external import of data, they are no longer
available for users now.

### Open Exposition

The button "open exposition" opens the first page (or "weave") of your
exposition.  This is equivalent to the __preview__ version in the
exposition workspace.

### Exposition Details Menu

![object menu location](images/hamburger_location.png "image showing
location of menu button")

To access the menu, click on the ("hamburger") menu icon, located in
the bottom right corner of an object (expositions or works). Some
options are only available to the author of the object.

* __Change layout__ change the size of an object on the profile.

* __Edit workspace__ go to the workspace editor of this exposition.

* __Edit details__ change the meta data of your exposition, and
  control collaboration with other users. See [edit
  research](#edit-research)

* __Share__ change who can see and access this item.

* __Self-publish__ turn an exposition into a fixed state.  <br/>Please
note that publishing is a one-way action, *once published one can not
unpublish*. If you want to keep the option of removing an exposition,
do not use this option.

* __Add to shortcut__ add a compact link to this object on the top of
  your profile.

* __Submit for publication__ submit an exposition to a portal for
  publication.

* __Connect to portal__ send a connection request to a portal.

* __Manage versions__ create or restore snapshots, see
  [versions](#manage-versions).

* __Export__ this function downloads a zip file, containing a HTML
  Export of the exposition. These HTML files can be opened on any
  computer with a browser, also offline. The start page is named
  __index.html__ .

* __Delete__ delete an exposition or work from the RC.

### Change Layout

This dialogue gives you the option of choosing the size of the
research description boxes on your profile page.

![The 4 options for how to display research on your
profile](images/change-layout.png "image displaying layout options for
research on My Profile")

Depending on the length of the content, the abstract and additional
information may be reduced or even hidden. Sizing objects differently
allows to focus a reader's attention to important objects as well as
to improve the overall readability of your profile page.

## Manage versions

It is possible to create a snapshot of your exposition, which you can
restore later.

A snapshot is created by going to ☰ > __versions__ and clicking __add
snapshot__.

![version dialog](images/manage-versions.png "image showing manage
versions dialog")

When you restore a snapshot, the original is not overwritten, instead
a new exposition will be created from the snapshot.

There are three options for how to deal with the
[collaboration](#collaborating-on-research) settings of a restored
snapshot:

* __private__ remove all collaborators (only you can see the restored
  exposition snapshot).
* __restore__ the collaboration will be as it was when the snapshot
  was taken.
* __keep__ the collaboration as it is in the current version of the
  exposition.

One can also restore as private and change the settings afterwards of
course, through the collaboration and share menus.

### Versions of published expositions

Published expositions cannot be changed in the RC (this is per
definition, to allow referencing content within these expositions by
other researchers), but duplicates can !

To get an editable duplicate of a published exposition one has to:

1. make a snapshot of the published exposition.
2. restore the snapshot.

This duplicate can now be edited, without the changes having effect on
the original published exposition.

## Edit Research

This dialog can be opened by __☰ > edit details__ or clicking the
title of the exposition in the workspace editor.

![Edit research dialog, showing meta page](images/edit-research.png
"image showing edit research dialog")

* __Meta data__ change the __title__, __date__, __abstract__, __keywords__, __affiliation__ and __external link__ fields for your exposition.  
A __title__ and __abstract__ are obligatory.

__Author Pseudonym__ field allows you to display the exposition under
a different name. If one is provided, the author pseudonym will
replace the authors names wherever the work is shown on RC (and in the
[DOI](https://www.doi.org) deposit, if the exposition is
published). This can also be used if a group of author(s) wants to
appear under a group name. The full list of authors will be shown on
the metadata page.

At the bottom of the __meta__ tab, one can also set the __entry
page__: the weave that is the first page that the reader sees.  <br />

* __Table of content__ change the content menu, which the user can use
to navigate between pages.  See [table-of-content](#table-of-content).

* __Collaboration__ add co-authors, editors and supervisors.  See
[collaboration](#collaborating-on-research)

* __Relations__ create relationships with other objects on your
  profile, which will result in them being listed on the Research
  page. This page is shown when somebody clicks the title of the
  research on your profile.

### Grouping

When you create a set or exposition the new objects will appear in
default groupings ("Sets" and "Expositions"). If you are invited to
one by another RC user, they will appear under "Expositions
(collaborated).

To add a new group click [ add grouping ] and enter the name of the
grouping. You can sort your objects within a group, arrange the groups
themselves and move object between groups via drag and drop. Click and
drag a grouping itself to change the order of the groups.

On the right-hand side of a grouping's title, there are a series of
icons displayed. Here you can edit and delete the grouping and control
its public visibility (using the circle icon).

Only custom grouping can be deleted. If you have only one grouping
containing content, its title will not be shown on your public
profile. Empty groups will also not be displayed on your public
profile page.

### Cleaning up cluttered profiles:

You can delete expositions you have created by clicking ☰ -> delete
exposition. Expositions which are in review or published cannot be
deleted.

If you are co-author, contributor or supervisor of an exposition, you
can "leave collaboration" to remove the exposition from your profile.

You can open / close groupings by clicking the small triangle on the
left of an exposition.  You can also make the box of an exposition
smaller by clicking ☰ -> change layout. It can also be easier to get
an overview by using your browsers zoom (ctrl/cmd + ctrl/cmd -). 
You can return to default zoom level with ctrl/cmd 0.


 

 

 
