## About the Research Catalogue

RC content presented through some of our portals is peer reviewed, while the remaining expositions and other information are quality controlled by the individual author(s) themselves. As a result, the RC is highly inclusive. 

The open source status of the RC is essential to its nature and serves
its function as a connective and transitional layer between academic
discourse and artistic practice, thereby constituting a discursive
field for artistic research.

The RC creates a link between:

1. elaborated documentation of artistic work,
2. expositions and comments that engage with the contribution of the work as research
3. creation of individual profiles that present the researchers work.

It is believed that the reflective space provided by the RC
constitutes an essential part of the research process by providing a
suitable structure in which to develop the relationship between
documentation and presentation, whilst also retaining congruence with
art itself.

### What is an RC Exposition ?

The RC allows the user to create custom designed webpages called
__expositions__. These __expositions__ can contain many types of media
including: text, video, images, and audio recordings.  The way in
which these materials are presented is highly customizable by the
user. The exposition can be edited in an online drag-and-drop
editor. Collaboration of multiple authors on the development of a
single exposition is also possible.

### What is a "Work" ?

In addition to expositions, it is also possible to upload single or
multiple files and organize them as a __work__, which can also contain
metadata about the work. A __work__ in the RC can be used to represent
self-sufficient artistic creations existing outside the RC, such as
objects, compositions, recordings, videos, installations, paintings,
photographs, books etc, but can also be used to represent events,
presentations or expositions. You can add metadata such as the place
of your work, the country or the material, technique or
format. Moreover, the work can contain a collection of media files,
which can later be accessed in used in expositions.

### Connection between RC and JAR

The RC forms the technical backbone of the Journal for Artistic
Research (JAR): potential JAR expositions emerge from the range of the
artistic research activities taking place in the RC. Moreover,
submissions and peer-reviewing for JAR takes place in the RC. Authors
may nominate or JAR editors may select expositions for development as
JAR contributions.

If you think that the RC software might also support your research
database needs then explore the possibility of using the RC as your
repository by contacting us.

The Research Catalogue is provided by the Society for Artistic
Research (SAR).
