# COMMANDS 

contain some extra tools for using the workspace editor. 

## COMMAND - OVERVIEW 

The overview displays a second window on the right side of the editor. It is useful for navigation on the weave while editing. It also shows objects that might otherwise be invisible. It will be not part of your exposition in the preview. In the browser-view of your research (=preview) there is an own navigation window in the menu-bar, which is similar to the overview in commands.

The overview shows you the size of the whole page. The note-tool implementation allows you to navigate trough the notes. You can also select or filter, which note you want to have displayed and which not. Under the note tool-implementation there is a overview from the complete page you are working on. The table below shows you the layers. Each item has an own layer in RC. Like in graphic-programs, you can change the order of the layers and bring the items in a specific hierarchy. Aspeacialy when you are working with the opacity of items, this pallett will help you to keep a visual overview.



> back to editor overview

 

COMMAND - SNAP TO GRID/ GRID SIZE / INVISIBLE GRID


The weave has a grid in the background which makes it easy to define positions. This grid-size is default set by 5x5 px. You can easely change the size of the grid by clicking the pull-down-menu and choose on of the options from the list. You can also remove the grid by switching the size to 'invisible'.

With snap to grid you activate the mode, that the item is not placeable fluently all over the weave. In dependence of the grid size the frame snaps into the grid. It makes it easy to find the same position when you want to site accurate.


 > back to editor overview

 

COMMAND - SET DEFAULT POSITION/ SHOW CURRENT POSITION

 

The special feature of RC is the absolute positioning of items of the weave. With this you can define on the level of each pixel, where you want to have your text, picture, sound- or video player. This makes it possible to work very free with the weave and gives you the opportunity to navigate and link to a specific position on the weave.

With set default position you can set the entrance position of your page (which is 0;0 top/left by default) to any other position of the weave. Browse to the entrance coordinates, position or item and press set default position. A dialogue gives you the URL which includes the coordinates of the position.

Maybe you want to link to a special position on the weave and you have to generate the URL for this. After browsindg to the coordinates or to the item you can generate the URL by clicking show current position. You can copy the URL and use it for hyperlinking, anchoring or for publishing.

 

 

 > back to editor overview


COMMAND - RESTORE DELETED TOOLS

 

Every tool or item on the weave is deletable via using the rightclick or doubleclicking the item and use the button delete tool.

Sometimes it's necessary to restore a tool. Because RC is a browser-based engine, you can't use the undo-option of your browser or the shortcut on your keyboard. Every item has its own history which is listed on the tab history in the edit-tool-dialogue. Here you have the option restore the stadium of the item. If the item or tool is deleted of couse it's not possible to use this because the item won't be any longer on the weave. With restore deleted tools you have the option to get back deleted tools. After clicking it, there will be a list with all items. Choose the right one and click on restore and the item will be reintegrate in the exposition.


> back to editor overview

 

COMMAND - SEND COLLABORATION MESSAGE


When you are working together on a research. You can use the command send collaboration message to commuicate with the co-authors or contributors inside the RC. Open the command by clicking on the button and you will find a message-window. In the upper part you can choose the partners you want to write. Select them by clicking on the + behind theire names.

Below you can find a html-based message window, where you can write your message. You can also attach files but please note, that this is only possible, when you have a URL (e.g. public link of your cloudspace) of this file. It's not possible to attach  fieles from the simple-media.


 > back to editor overview





