<!-- TODO: Insert links to other parts of the documentation -->

# Navigation

#### Menu Bar Navigation

When one moves the mouse cursor to the top of an exposition a menu bar
appears. The menu bar displays the title of the exposition and the
name of its author as well as a series of drop down menus, which allow
one to navigate the current page (or "weave") and the exposition as a
whole. The first item ("home") opens the table of content, which can
be freely designed by the author (see the next section on how to enter
entries into the table of content). The second item ("navigation")
displays a schematic overview of the current page. It outlines all
tools on the page, their size and position. By moving the red
rectangle, which displays the currently visible part of the weave, one
can navigate the page and alter the current selection.

#### Table of Content

The table of content[^1] is designed to facilitate the navigation
through an exposition. In order to edit the table of content and enter
entries click on the title of your exposition in the editor (one can
also open this window by going to the exposition on the profile page
and clicking "edit details"). This opens a dialogue window titled
"Edit Research." The second tab ("table of content") of this window
contains a series of entries. To make a new entry select the page (or
"weave") that this item in the table of content is supposed to link to
from the pull down menu and enter a title for this entry to be
displayed in the table of content. Moreover one can choose a specific
position within the selected page. The "X-Coord" is the distance in
pixels from the left margin of the exposition and the "Y-Coord" is the
distance in pixels from the top margin (See the section on "Commands"
for more information on obtaining position information.) The table of
content thus not only allows structuring expositions by creating a
series of weaves, but also by using various locations within one
weave.

#### Hyperlinking

It is possible to create hyperlinks[^2] between pages (or "weaves") of an
exposition and within a single page. In order to create a link to a
different page, select the target weave in the editor. Select the tab
"Commands" on the right hand side and click on "show current
position." This will display the URL of the target page. Copy the URL
into the clipboard (Ctrl-C/Cmd-C). Move the page where you want to
create the link. Create an HTML-Tool (see the section on the HTML-Tool
for more information) and enter the text to be displayed and selected
it. By right-clicking open the context menu and select "Insert/Edit
Link," paste the copied URL into the text field labeled "Link URL" and
close the HTML-Tool by clicking "Submit." One can also create a link
to a different position within the same page by moving to this
position (see also the next section on the overview function) and
following the same procedure.

#### Overview

Within the "Commands" tab on the right-hand side of the editor there
is a checkbox labeled "Overview." Clicking the checkbox will open and
close an a schematic overview on the right-hand side of the
editor. The overview outlines all tools on the page, their size and
position. By moving the red rectangle, which displays the currently
visible part of the weave, one can navigate the page and alter the
current selection.

[^1]: There is a tutorial video explaining how to use the table of
    content on the [RC Video Tutorials page](https://www.researchcatalogue.net/view/273532/273533)

[^2]: There is a tutorial video explaining how to use hyperlinks
    on the [RC Video Tutorials page](https://www.researchcatalogue.net/view/273532/273533)
