## text tool

The text tool is designed for quickly adding text. Its content can be directly edited in the weave, unlike the html tool, which' content edited in a seperate dialog box. It is a bit more limited in terms of text formatting options, so if you need more styling options, use the html-tool. 

The text tool has two states: when in *active state* you can change the text, if you click outside, you can move the object and change the size of the outer box. Double click inside to start editing the text again. As soon as you clicked outside, the content is stored and a version is created under history.

If you right click the text tool, you can find some extra edit options under __edit__.

### Style

[> style options](#style-options)

### History
[> history tab](#history)

## html tool

The HTML tool is for advanced text editing. It is a *what-you-is-what-you-get* rich text editor.

### tabs: media tab

Text is edited in "media." To preformat the text, choose your settings before typing. The style can also be edited after typing by selecting either the whole page or sections of the page and changing the formatting options as required.

*! important: If you copy-paste your text from Word/Pages or any other text editor,
please note that not all fonts are available on every computer. Only the fonts that are listed in the RC editor will be visible for all readers. Better is to import the text without any formatting.*

You can choose standard type formats such as bold, italic, or underline, as well as adjusting text alignment, font, and size.

To enlarge the palette, click on the first button, "show/hide toolbars." Here you will find different options for further formats, such as lists, enumerations, citations. It is also possible to create hyperlinks (chain symbol), or to set anchors for navigation. You can implement pictures or further HTML materials such as i-frames (the embedding of HTML pictures or video is not possible with uploaded audio-visual content, which means that you have to publish a URL from an external server to paste it into the dialogue). You can also choose the colour or the background of the text using the colour tools, insert symbols and tables, and control the edits with the "show changes" option.

[> back to editor overview](#overview)



### Style

[> style options](#style-options)



### Options

If a text is longer than its frame on the weave, a scrollbar is generated automatically. You can control the visibility of the scrollbar in "options." The default setting is "automatic."





 

### Templates

To improve the handling of settings or texts that are used periodically, you can create your own templates. This application is found in the "media" tab. After finishing the edit of your template, click "save as new template" and give the template a name in the dialogue box that appears. To load a template, click "load template" and choose as required from the list in the dialogue box.

### Submit, delete, or cancel

Finally, you have to quit the dialogue. If everything is the way you want it, choose "submit" and the text field will be loaded on the weave. To discard changes to the content, cancel the dialogue box. If you want to delete the whole HTML field, including all content in it, click "delete." Unintended deletions are restorable via "commands" – "restore deleted tools." In that location you can also learn how to restore deleted tools


> back to editor overview

 

## Video Tool

As with the other tools, you can use the video tool by dragging it from the tool palette and dropping it onto the weave.

In the dialogue box that appears you have the opportunity to add items from your computer or select items from the "simple media" folder.
At the moment, RC supports the following formats: avi, mov, mp4, mpg video container formats; dv1394, h.264, mpeg2, mpeg1, mjepeg video codec formats.

Please note also our general format information in FAQ 2.5: http://www.researchcatalogue.net/portal/faq

To add an item, choose "add" and upload the object from your desktop to the RC servers. All videos will also be added to simple media. Next, name the file and make a declaration of the copyright holder. After adding media, you can edit the style of the audio player with the html style standards and choose between different play and display options.

Please note, all media will be compressed to a smaller size, this is called 'transcoding'. The process takes time. During the 'transcoding'  the file name is greyed out in your simple media. After the transcoding process is finished you will receive an email notification to tell you that your media is transcoded and ready for use. Please check the inbox of the address you use to log in. The message is also sent to the internal messenger. For further information and technical questions see FAQ 2.6:
http://www.researchcatalogue.net/portal/faq or contact the RC User Support.

Please also note, we highly recommend using low-size video files. People without a fast internet connection will not watch videos when they are too big to stream fluently. If your file is extremely large, you may want to convert it using Handbrake, FFMpeg or another tool to make it smaller. Compressed formats give very high quality for a much smaller filesize.

## Style

The style options are based on the html/CSS standard. Thus, you can define the position and dimension of the video player and the padding (the gap between object and border), you can style the borders and shadows of the player, and you can define the opacity of the item or create a coloured background for the player.

## Options

As with other players, the RC video player has different settings you can change, use, or specify.

- __loop__
You can select if the video should play in a loop or stop at the end of the file. To set the player on loop, click the checkbox "" The player starts and loops the file after being activated by pressing play. 

- __autoplay__ 
To let the audio start without an active click, choose the option if this box is checked, the player starts to run the file when the page is loaded. If you are using multiple video players on the same weave and your page is quite big, visitors may find it helpful if you prevent overlapping by defining which player is playing. To do this, use the checkbox "stop other players". With this option selected, all players (video player, audio player on slideshows, other audio players) will stop when the selected player is running a file. When multiplaying is intended, we encourage you to use the play tool.

- __display minimal__
When checked, the player constists of only the play button and the process bar.


As in the picture tool, if it is necessary to provide textual information on the video file you can choose to display plain text or copyright information that will appear when the mouse hovers over the item.

You can also use the play tool to synchronize certain video and audio tools.



PLAY TOOL

The play tool is designed to synchronize the playback of selected video and audio tools on the same weave. With this tool one can create a single control for playing back various media files at the same time. The simultaneous playback of multiple audio and video tools can thus be coordinated. This can, for example, be used to document video installations with multiple screens and allows playing back synchronized combinations of musical voices and audio tracks. The play tool displays an image which can be clicked and functions as play and pause button. Clicking the image will start the playback of the selected audio and video files. While playing the tool another image will be displayed instead. Clicking this image will pause the players.

MEDIA
In the media tab one can upload two image files. One image will be the play­placeholder, i.e.clicking the image will initiate the playback of the selected files. The other image will be the pause­placeholder, i.e. clicking this image will pause the selected audio and video files on the weave.

OPTIONS
In the options tab one can select from among all audio and video files on the weave. These must have been uploaded first with the audio and video tools. The selected files will be controlled with the play tool. The option “pause other players when playing” will ensure that only the selected media files will be played back.

 

 > back to editor overview

 

PICTURE TOOL


To add a picture, drag and drop the "picture" icon from the tool palette to the weave. As with all other tools, a pop-up dialogue starts automatically and gives you the choice between "selecting" or "adding" an item. 

You can upload to RC pictures and graphics in the following formats: jpg, png, tiff, gif, psd, tga, bmp. For uploading PDFs, please use the PDF tool.

To add an item, choose "add" and upload the object from your desktop to the RC servers. Next, name the file and make a declaration of the copyright holder. Once an image is uploaded it is also automatically added to the simple media tab.

 

Style

The style options are based on the html/CSS standard. Thus, you can define the position and dimension of the picture and the padding (the gap between object and border), you can style the borders and shadows of the picture, you can also define the opacity of the item or create a coloured background for the picture. 

 

Options

The picture tool includes some advanced options. There are different options concerning the properties of a picture and its position in relation to other objects. In the "position" menu in "options," you can specify how the picture relates to other objects: choose between contain, cover, fit, and auto. "Contain" is the default for this field. You also have the option to define the position of the picture in the picture frame (which is not visible in the browser unless you give it a specific style). The position is preset to "centre-centre."

In "settings" you are able to lock the aspect ratio (the ratio from the width to the height), and you can allow readers to enlarge the image by activating the checkbox "on click open image in popup." If you want to use a picture as a hyperlink, paste a URL into the field "on click open link." It is also possible to show specific information when the cursor is moved over a picture. If the picture is set as a hyperlink, you could for example set plain text to appear that describes where the hyperlink goes to ("more," "...further information," "... go to," "introduction," "summary," etc.). In cases where the picture is of an artwork, or if the picture is the artwork, you could provide the title of the work and the name of the copyright holder. This is also possible by using the option "copyright & plain text." Please note, you can't change the copyright in the "edit picture" tool. To change the name or the copyright text, go to the item in "simple media" and click "edit" (also double click) to open the "edit media" dialogue.


 > back to editor overview


SLIDESHOW TOOL


The slideshow tool allows you to create a gallery with pictures and graphics that can be displayed in a loop. You can start the slideshow in autoplay and you can add an audio file to each picture of the slideshow.

 

Drag and drop the slideshow icon to the weave to start the edit dialogue box.

To be able to select media you first have to upload an item into "simple media." To add an item, choose "add" and upload the object from your desktop to the RC servers. Next, name the file and make a declaration of the copyright holder. After adding the file, you can edit the style of the picture with the html style standards. To add a sound file to the slide, the file has first to be uploaded to simple media.

 

Style

You can style the borders of the pictures as well as the background with a additional picutre or with a colour. You can also create shadows and control the opacity of this whole element.

 

Options

In options you can define the position of the picture within the frame. This is important when you are using pictures with different dimensions. In "settings" it is possible to choose to loop the slideshow. If "loop" is checked, after the final slide the slideshow will continue with the first slide again. You can choose whether to hide the navigation bar or whether to give the reader the option to enlarge the picture with a click on the picture in your weave.

In "automate" you can set the autoplay to run automatically after the first click ("run after click") or after loading the page ("autoplay"). When choosing autoplay you must define the speed the slide will change. You can customise the duration of each slide ("speed per slide") or let each slide change at the default speed.

As mentioned before, you can append audio files to each slide. Please note, you first have to upload the file into your "simple media" folder. In options > audio you can regulate the time of a crossfade (one audio file fades out while a second fades in at a specified time). You can also choose the fade duration and the timeout of an audio file.

 > back to editor overview



SHAPE TOOL

The play shape tool is made for a simple usage of grafic elements in the RC. You can generate forms that could structure your layout or helps you to build up an own navigation. At the moment you can create rectangles or circles or lines. You can choose if they're filled or not so you can create a frame from the rectangle and a ring from the circle. You have also the possibility to specify the strongness of the frame and operate with the opacity of the elements. Next to this there are four types of arrows (left, right, up, down). You can resize the element on the weave via pulling or pushing the green frame. The yellow point offers you to turn the element.


 > back to editor overview

 

AUDIO TOOL


As with the other tools, use the audio tool by dragging and dropping the icon from the tool palette to the weave. A pop-up dialogue starts automatically and gives you the choice between "selecting" or "adding" an item. 

You can upload to RC pictures and graphics in the following formats: ogg, wav, mov, au, mp4 audio container formats; mp2, mp3, aac, pcm a-law, flac audio codec formats.

Please also see our general format information in FAQ 2.5: http://www.researchcatalogue.net/portal/faq


To select media they must first have been uploaded into "simple media." To add an item, choose "add" and upload the object from your desktop to the RC servers. Next, name the file and make a declaration of the copyright holder. After adding the file, you can edit the style of the audio player with the html style standards and choose between different play and display options.


Please note, to be used on our server, all media will be transcoded from the RC. This takes some time. During the transcoding process, the file name is greyed out in simple media. After the transcoding process is finished you will receive an email notification that your media is transcoded and ready for use. Please check the inbox of the address you use to log in. The message is also sent to the internal messenger. For further information and technical questions see FAQ 2.6:
http://www.researchcatalogue.net/portal/faq or contact the RC User Support.

 

Style

The style options are based on the html standard. Thus, you can define the position and dimension of the audio player and the padding (the gap between object and border), you can style the borders and shadows of the player, and you can define the opacity of the item, create a coloured background, or set an image for the player from your simple media. 

 

Options

As in other players, the RC audio player has different settings you can change, use, or specify.

First you can choose whether the audio should play in a loop or finish at the end of the file. To set the player to loop, click the checkbox "loop." The player will then start and loop the file when it is activated by pressing play. To let the audio start without an active click, you can choose the option "autoplay." If this box is checked, the player starts to run the file when the page is loaded. If you are using more than one audio player on the same weave and your page is quite big, visitors may find it helpful if you prevent overlapping by defining which player is playing. To do this, use the checkbox "stop other players." If this option is chosen, all players (video player, audio player on slideshows, other audio players) will stop when the selected player is running the file.


You can also define some visual player settings. You can hide the whole menu bar or you can set the visibility of the volume or define if you want a player with as few options as possible. When "display minimal" is checked, the player consists only of the play button and the process bar.


As in the picture tool, if it is necessary to give textual information about the sound file, you can edit so that plain text or copyright information will be displayed when the mouse hovers over the item.


 > back to editor overview

 

PDF TOOL


The PDF tools give you the opportunity to attach longer text documents to the RC. Sometimes it is neither convenient nor practical to present long text passages on the internet. If you nevertheless need or want to attach documents or materials to your exposition, the pdf tool can be very useful.


After dragging the icon to the weave, you can upload the pdf in the "edit pdf" tool. You can also choose a pdf from "simple media" if it has been uploaded previously. An alternative way to upload is to click the "+" below "simple media."


In the uploading dialogue box, you can choose to represent the PDF in your exposition either with a preview image of the file or with a different picture.

 

Style

The style options are based on the html standard. Thus, you can define the position and dimension of the tool and the padding (the gap between object and border), you can style the borders and shadows of the picture, and you can define the opacity of the item or create a colour or picture background for the tool. 

 

Options

RC gives you and your reader the possibility to read the PDF directly in the browser if the browser supports this. To use this option check "display in browser" in option > settings of the "edit pdf" tool dialogue box. As in the picture tool, you can provide further information using the hover option. To do this, select one of the options in the "show on hover" pull-down menu. In addition, you can create a plain text to be displayed when the reader's mouse hovers over the PDF preview. To use this, choose "plain text" or "copyright & plain text" from the pull-down menu and write your text in the text field below.


 > back to editor overview

 

NOTE TOOL

 

Note is a tool that allows you to organize your work on RC. You can use it as sticky note, to make some notes for yourself while the editing of your research or you can use it as a communication tool for the collaborators of the project. The handling is very easy: Drag the note from the tool-pallett and drag it on the weave. You can write directly on the note without opening a new edit-window. Each note has a time-stamp which is generated when the note is sticked on the weave. Please check also the option of the note-view which is described here.

There you can define, who is responsible for the content (a change or revision, correction) of the note and you can set a date this work should be done.

Please note, that notes are visible on the preview as well. If it is not part of your project please check, that all notes are removed from the weave.


> back to editor overview

# Style options

You can use the buttons to directly add the basic stylings, eg. highlight it with bold or italic font or structure it with numerations or lists. You can change the font-family and in- or decrease the indent. You can also insert a link.

# History

"History" provides a log of all changes that have been made to the tool. If you have unintentionally deleted a tool, you can restore it using "restore deleted tools" in the commands.